---
layout: resume
title: Rizhen Zhang's Resume
update: 2012/3/21
---

h1(title). {{page.title}} 

h2. Biography

I'm an undergraduate student (senior year) in "Software Institute":http://software.nju.edu.cn of "Nanjing University":http://www.nju.edu.cn . 

My instructor is "Tongwei Ren":http://software.nju.edu.cn/rentw. I am now a member of our team to do some research on "media cloud", our innovation project. 

During the past 2.5 academic years, I have maintained 2/250(more or less) GPA grade level ranking.

h2. Educational Background

* 2009/09 - now Software Institute, Nanjing University

h2. Technical Skills

* Familiar with Python, C, Java, C++ programming languages 
* Familiar with GNU/Linux and Mac OS
* Have some knowledge of hadoop, pig, hbase and zookeeper
* Familiar with web development with HTML, Javascript, CSS and some framework such as Django, bottle, Flask

h2. Awards and Honors

* 2011 Samsung Scholarship 
* 2010 National Scholarship

h2. Interest

h3. Academic Interest

* Distributed computing, Cloud computing 
* Search Engine 
* Data Mining
* Machine Learning

h3. Personal Hobbies

* Enjoy Reading
* Love open source and the spirit of sharing
* Use Linux and appreciate it's philosophy: KISS 
* Like coding and solving problems
* Love python and c
* Appreciate functional and structured programming paradigm

h2. Internship & Employment

* None

<div class="page-break"></div>

h2. Projects

h3. Research

|2011/05 - 2013/05| Media Cloud | To apply cloud computing and storage on multimedia processing for research purpose<br>based on hadoop, hbase and pig|

h3. Software App

|2010/04 - 2010/05| Blackjack | A Java Swing GUI game, My First App (^ _ ^)<br>Third Prize of EL Programming Contest of Software Institute|
|2010/09 - 2010/11| "Danger KO":https://github.com/sheimi/danger_ko | A Danger inform app on android<br>Prize for Excellence in an Android App Contest held by Google|
|2011/03 - 2011/06| "Oedu":https://github.com/sheimi/oedu | A education communication system aimed to make it easier to communicate between teachers and students<br>B/S, Django+Tornado+Nginx as server-side<br>Use comet model to enable instance messaging<br/> Use Ngnix to speed up transmission of large files|
|2012/03 - 2012/03| "Online-Shop":https://github.com/sheimi/online-shop | A E-Commerce System, Web Homework<br>based on Flask Framework, Bootstrap|

h2. Other Information

*(left contact) Address:
  ** Room 310, Dorm 5
  ** Nanjing University, Nanjing
  ** China, 210093
*(left other contact) Tel: 
  ** +86 15298388031
*(left other contact)  
  ** %(contact-label)Email:% "sheimi.zhang@gmail.com":mailto:sheimi.zhang@gmail.com
  ** %(contact-label)Github:% "github.com/sheimi":https://github.com/sheimi
  ** %(contact-label)Blog:% "blog.sheimi.me":http://blog.sheimi.me
  ** %(contact-label)Twitter:% "@sheimi_nju":http://twitter.com/#!/sheimi_nju


<div class="clear"></div>
