---
layout: post
title: 软件架构复习笔记(6) -- 模块化
category: note 
published: true 
home: no
meta:
  location: NJU 
tags: [architecture, review, note]
---

h2. Pinciples

# Global Vriables Consider Harmful
# To be explicit
# Do not Repeat
# Programming to Interface
# Get Specified, Design by Contract(Suffered Interface: Specified vs Required Interface: Used)


h2. Coupling

# Content Coupling
# Common Coupling: Global Value
# Modification Coupling: Do not Repeat
# Control Coupling: pass data and control elements
# Stamp Coupling: pass data more than necessary
# Data Coupling: passing data

h3. Reduce coupling

Encapsulation reduce coupling: Data encapsulation
* Subdividing the potential shared elements into groups
* Limiting each group access to the smallest possible subset of modules

Connections that address or refer to a module as a whole by its name yield lower coupling than connections referring to the internal elements of another module(Programming to interface)

h2. Cohesion

# Coincidental: No Binding
# Logical: Binding by logical similarity
# Temporal: Binding by logical similarity + time
# Communicational: Binding by the same data
# Sequential: Binding by the same problem
# Functional: Binding by the same goal
# information


h2. OO Coupling

# Component coupling
# Inheritance Coupling
# Message passing coupling(keep it low)
# Data abstraction coupling(keep it low)
# Module coupling(keep it low)

h3. Component coupling
* Whole variable: Aggregation(Global)
* Parameter: Method parameter(Local) 
* Creator: Creator in some mehod's local
* Hidden: Given by another object (worst:implicit)

The law of demeter
* You can play with yourself
* You can play with your own toy but you can't take them apert
* You can play with toys that were given to you
* You can play with toys you've made yourself

h3. Inheritance Coupling

* Modification (Implicit, Harm)
* Refinement (Necessary)
* Extension (LSP)

h2. OO Cohesion

# Procedural Cohesion
# Single Abstraction Cohesion (to achieve a common purpose)

h3. Cohesion of Attribute
* Separable
* Multifaceted
* Non-delegated
* Concealed
* Model: informational strength

h3. The best objects

* Information cohesion (maintain consistent state)
* Functional cohesion (one goal, one responsibility)
* Information Hiding (one reason to change)
